pages/public/learn/roundtrip/600_quicksearch.adoc, before:

---
title:                                  QuickSearch
tagline:                                full index search based on lunr
date:                                   2020-11-08 00:00:00
description: >
                                        QuickSearch is based on the search engine Lunr,
                                        fully integrated with J1 Template. Lunr is designed
                                        to be lightweight, yet full featured to provide a
                                        great search experience. No need for complex external,
                                        server-sideed search engines, or commercial services
                                        on the Internet like Google.

tags:                                   [ Roundtrip, QuickSearch ]
categories:                             [ Search ]

toc:                                    true
scrollbar:                              false

permalink:                              /pages/public/learn/roundtrip/quicksearch/
regenerate:                             false

resources:                              [ lunr, rouge, lightbox, clipboard ]
resource_options:
  - toccer:
      collapseDepth:                    3
  - attic:
      padding_top:                      400
      padding_bottom:                   50
      opacity:                          0.5
      slides:
        - url:                          /assets/images/modules/attics/banner/lunr-banner-1280x800.jpg
          alt:                          Lunr
---

// Page Initializer
// =============================================================================
// Enable the Liquid Preprocessor
:page-liquid:

// Set (local) page attributes here
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
// :page--attr:                         <attr-value>

//  Load Liquid procedures
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% capture load_attributes %}themes/{{site.template.name}}/procedures/global/attributes_loader.proc{%endcapture%}

// Load page attributes
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% include {{load_attributes}} scope="all" %}

// Page content
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

// Include sub-documents
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


QuickSearch is based on the search engine Lunr, fully integrated with J1
Template. Lunr is designed to be lightweight, yet full featured to provide a
great search experience. No need for complex external, server-sideed search
engines, or commercial services on the Internet like Google.

Searching a website using QuickSearch is different in compare to search engines
like Google or Microsoft Bing. Those search platforms using complex algorithm
to provide a simple interface to the public, but using a lot of artificial
intelligence (AI) methods in behind to make senseful results out of a handfull
words given for a search.

Nevertheless, QuickSearch, the J1 implementation of Lunr, is simple like
searching at Google, but offers additional features to do searches more
specific - if wanted. QuickSearch provides a easy to use query language for
better results - anyway!

== Core concepts

Understanding some of the concepts and terminology that QuickSearch (Lunr)
uses will allow users to provide powerful search functionality - to get more
relevant search results.

=== Indexing documents

QuickSearch, offers searches on *all* documents of website generated by J1
but only for this site. Advantage, no internet access is done for searches,
because it's not needed. Searches are based on a pre-build local site
*full-text* index loaded by the browser on a page request. The index for a
site is generated by the (Jekyll) plugin `lunr_index.rb` located in the
`_plugins` folder.

The full-text index is always generated by Jekyll at build-time:

.Index creation at buildtime
----
Startup the site ..
Configuration file: ...

 Incremental build: enabled
      Generating...
     J1 QuickSearch: creating search index ...
     J1 QuickSearch: finished, index ready.
     ....
----

Or, if you're running a website in development mode, the index gets refreshed
for all files added or modified.

.Index creation if files added, or modified
----
site:       Regenerating: n file(s) changed at ...
site:       ...
site:      J1 QuickSearch: creating search index ...
site:      J1 QuickSearch: finished, index ready.
           ...
----

=== Documents

The searchable data in an index is organized as documents that contains the
text, the words (terms), that you want to be able to search on. A document is
a data set (JSON object) with a set of fields that are processed to create the
result list for a search.

A document data set might look like this:

[source, json, role="noclip"]
----
{
  "title": "Web in a Day",
  "tagline": "meet & greet jekyll",
  "url": "/pages/public/learn/kickstarter/web_in_a_day/meet_and_greet/",
  "date": "2018-05-01 00:00:00 +0000",
  "tags": [
    "Introduction"
  ],
  "categories": [
    "Jekyll",
    "Knowledge",
    "Tutorial"
  ],
  "description": "Web in a Day is the first in a series of tutorials ..."
}
----

In this document there are several fields, like `title`, `tagline`, or
`description` that could be used for *full-text* searches. But additional
fields are available, like `tags` or `categories` that can be used for
more specific searches based on `identifiers`.

NOTE: The document *content* is collected by the (intrinsic) field `body`.
To limit the size of the index data loaded by the browser, the body
field is removed from a document. The `body` field not available as an
*explicit* field for searches, but the *content* is fully searchable.

To do a simple full-text search as well as more specific searches, the
QuickSearch core engine Lunr offers a query language, a DSL (domain specific
language). Find more about *QuickSearch|Lunr DSL* queries with section
<<Searching>>.

=== Scoring

The relevance (the `score`) of a document is calculated based on an algorithm
called *BM25*, along with other factors. You don’t need to worry too much about
the details of how this technically works. To summarize: the more a search term
occurs in a single document, the more that term will increase that document’s
score, but the more a search term occurs in the *overall* collection of
documents, the less that term will increase a document’s score. In other words,
seldom words counts, and increase the score.

Scoring information, generated by the BM25 algorithm, is added to the (local)
search index. This allows a very fast calculation of the relevance of documents
for queries.

Imagine you’re website contains documents about Jekyll. The term `Jekyll` may
occur very frequently throughout the entire website; used quite often for the
content. So finding a document that mentions the term Jekyll isn’t very
significant for a search.

However, if you’re searching for `Jekyll Generator`, only some documents of
the website have the word `Generator` in them, and that will bring the score
(relevance) for documents having both words in them at a higher level,
bring them higher up in the search results.

Matching and scoring is used by all search engines; the same to J1 QuickSearch.
You'll see for QuickSearch a similiar behavior in *sorting* search results as
you already know from commercial internet search engines like Google: the top
results are the more relevant ones.

== Searching

To access QuickSearch, a magnifier button is available in the `Quicklinks`
area in the menu bar at the top-right of every page.

.Search button (magnifier) in the quick access area
lightbox::quicksearch-icon[ 800, {data-quicksearch-icon} ]

A mouse-click on the magnifier button opens the search input and disables
all other navigation to focus on what you're itended to do: searching.

.Input bar for a QuickSearch
lightbox::quicksearch-input[ 800, {data-quicksearch-input} ]

Search queries looks like simple text. But the search `engine` under the
hood of QuickSearch transforms the given search string (text) always into a
search query. This supports a special syntax, the DSL, for defining more
complex queries for better (scored) results.

As always: start simple!

=== Simple searches

The simplest way to run a search is to pass the text (words, terms) on which
you want to search on:

[source, text]
----
jekyll
----

The above will return all documents that match the term `jekyll`. Searches for
*multiple* terms (words) are also supported. If a document matches *at least*
one of the search terms, it will show in the results. The search terms are
combined by a logical `OR`.

[source, text]
----
jekyll tutorial
----

The above example will match documents that contain either `jekyll` *OR*
`tutorial`. Documents that contain _both_ will increase the score, and those
documents be returned first.

NOTE: In difference to a Google search (terms are combined at Google by a
logical `AND`) a Quicksearch combines the terms by an `OR`.

To combine search terms in a QuickSearch query by a logical *AND*, the terms
could be prepended by a plus sign (`+`) to mark them as for the QuickSearch
query (DSL) as *required*:

[source, text]
----
+jekyll +tutorial
----

=== Wildcards

QuickSearch supports wildcards when performing searches. A wildcard is
represented as an asterisk (`*`) and can appear anywhere in a search
term. For example, the following will match all documents with words
beginning with `Jek`:

[source, text]
----
jek*
----

NOTE: Language grammar rules are not relevant for searches. To simplify an
index, all words (terms) are transformed to lower case. As result, a word
`Jekyll` is the same as `jekyll` from a search-engines prospective. Language
variations of words like `Jekyll's` or plurals like `Generators` are reduced
to their base form. For searches, don't take care of grammar rules but the
spelling. If you're unsure about the spelling of a word, use wildcards.


=== Fields

By default, Lunr will search *all fields* in a document for the given query
terms, and it is possible to restrict a term to a specific *field*. The
following example searches for the term `jekyll` in the field title:

[source, text]
----
title:jekyll
----

The search term is prefixed with the name of the field, followed by a
colon (`:`). The field _must_ be one of the fields defined when building
the index. Unrecognised fields will lead to an error.

Field-based searches can be combined with all other term modifiers and
wildcards, as well as other terms. For example, to search for words
beginning with `jek` in the title *AND* the wildcard `coll*` in a document,
the following query can be used:

[source, text]
----
+title:jek* +coll*
----

==== Available fields

Beside the document *body*, an intrinsic field to create the full-text index
out of the document *content*, some more specific fields are available for
searches.

.Available fields (all documents)
[cols="3a,3a,6a, options="header", width="100%", role="rtable mt-3"]
|===============================================================================
|Name |Value |Description\|Example\|s

|`title`
|`string`
|The headline of a document (article, post)

Example\|s: QuickSearch
[source, text]
----
title:QuickSearch
----

|`tagline`
|`string`
|The subtitle of a document (article, post)

Example\|s: full index search

|`tags`
|`string`
|Tags describe the content of a document.

Example\|s: Roundtrip, QuickSearch

|`categories`
|`string`
|Categories describe the group of documnets a document belongs to.

Example\|s: Search

|`description`
|`string`
|The description is given by the author for a document. It gives a brief
summary what the document is all about.

Example\|s: QuickSearch is based on the search engine Lunr, fully integrated
with J1 Template  ...

|===============================================================================


////
=== Boosts

In multi-term searches, a single term may be important than others. For
these cases Lunr supports term level boosts. Any document that matches a
boosted term will get a higher relevance score, and appear higher up in
the results. A boost is applied by appending a caret (`^`) and then a
positive integer to a term.

[source, javascript]
----
idx.search('foo^10 bar')
----

The above example weights the term “foo” 10 times higher than the term
“bar”. The boost value can be any positive integer, and different terms
can have different boosts:

[source, javascript]
----
idx.search('foo^10 bar^5 baz')
----

=== Fuzzy Matches

Lunr supports fuzzy matching search terms in documents, which can be
helpful if the spelling of a term is unclear, or to increase the number
of search results that are returned. The amount of fuzziness to allow
when searching can also be controlled. Fuzziness is applied by appending
a tilde (`~`) and then a positive integer to a term. The following
search matches all documents that have a word within 1 edit distance of
“foo”:

[source, javascript]
----
idx.search('foo~1')
----

An edit distance of 1 allows words to match if either adding, removing,
changing or transposing a character in the word would lead to a match.
For example “boo” requires a single edit (replacing “f” with “b”) and
would match, but “boot” would not as it also requires an additional “t”
at the end.
////

=== Term presence

By default, Lunr combines multiple terms together in a search with a
logical OR. That is, a search for `jekyll collections` will match documents
that contain `jekyll` or contain `collections` or contain both. This behaviour
is controllable at the term level, i.e. the presence of each term in
matching documents can be specified.

By default each term is optional in a matching document, though a document
must have at least one matching term. It is possible to specify that a term
must be present in matching documents, or that it must be absent in matching
documents.

To indicate that a term must be *present* in matching documents the term
could be prefixed with a plus sign (`+`) (required) and to indicate that a
term  must be *absent* (not wanted) the term should be prefixed with a minus
(`-`).

The below example searches for documents that *must* contain `jekyll`, and
must *not* contain the word `collection`:

[source, text]
----
+jekyll -collection
----

To simulate a logical *AND* search of documents that contains the word `jekyll`
*AND* the word `collection`, mark both terms as required:

[source, text]
----
+jekyll +collection
----


== Whats next

You've explored some of the possibilities J1 offers for websites. But much,
much more can J1 do for your project. This was the last place to go for the
roundtrip. More details of the most common elements of Bootstrap can be found
on the previewer for a theme. Have a look at the
link:{previewer-theme}[Theme previewer].

To make things real for your new site, go for *Web in a day*. This tutorial
guides you through all the steps on how to build a website. Your site using
Jekyll and the template system J1. It's really a pleasant journey to learn what
modern static webs can offer today.

Start your journey from here: link:{url-j1-kickstarter--web-in-a-day}[Web in a day, {browser-window--new}].

Commit message:

Added Quickstart to Learn. Added comments to relevat pages

pages/public/learn/roundtrip/600_quicksearch.adoc, after:

---
title:                                  QuickSearch
tagline:                                full index search based on lunr
date:                                   2020-11-08 00:00:00
description: >
                                        QuickSearch is based on the search engine Lunr,
                                        fully integrated with J1 Template. Lunr is designed
                                        to be lightweight, yet full featured to provide a
                                        great search experience. No need for complex external,
                                        server-sideed search engines, or commercial services
                                        on the Internet like Google.

tags:                                   [ Roundtrip, QuickSearch ]
categories:                             [ Search ]

toc:                                    true
scrollbar:                              false
comments:                               true

permalink:                              /pages/public/learn/roundtrip/quicksearch/
regenerate:                             false

resources:                              [ lunr, rouge, lightbox, clipboard ]
resource_options:
  - toccer:
      collapseDepth:                    3
  - attic:
      padding_top:                      400
      padding_bottom:                   50
      opacity:                          0.5
      slides:
        - url:                          /assets/images/modules/attics/banner/lunr-banner-1280x800.jpg
          alt:                          Lunr
---

// Page Initializer
// =============================================================================
// Enable the Liquid Preprocessor
:page-liquid:

// Set (local) page attributes here
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
// :page--attr:                         <attr-value>

//  Load Liquid procedures
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% capture load_attributes %}themes/{{site.template.name}}/procedures/global/attributes_loader.proc{%endcapture%}

// Load page attributes
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% include {{load_attributes}} scope="all" %}

// Page content
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

// Include sub-documents
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


QuickSearch is based on the search engine Lunr, fully integrated with J1
Template. Lunr is designed to be lightweight, yet full featured to provide a
great search experience. No need for complex external, server-sideed search
engines, or commercial services on the Internet like Google.

Searching a website using QuickSearch is different in compare to search engines
like Google or Microsoft Bing. Those search platforms using complex algorithm
to provide a simple interface to the public, but using a lot of artificial
intelligence (AI) methods in behind to make senseful results out of a handfull
words given for a search.

Nevertheless, QuickSearch, the J1 implementation of Lunr, is simple like
searching at Google, but offers additional features to do searches more
specific - if wanted. QuickSearch provides a easy to use query language for
better results - anyway!

== Core concepts

Understanding some of the concepts and terminology that QuickSearch (Lunr)
uses will allow users to provide powerful search functionality - to get more
relevant search results.

=== Indexing documents

QuickSearch, offers searches on *all* documents of website generated by J1
but only for this site. Advantage, no internet access is done for searches,
because it's not needed. Searches are based on a pre-build local site
*full-text* index loaded by the browser on a page request. The index for a
site is generated by the (Jekyll) plugin `lunr_index.rb` located in the
`_plugins` folder.

The full-text index is always generated by Jekyll at build-time:

.Index creation at buildtime
----
Startup the site ..
Configuration file: ...

 Incremental build: enabled
      Generating...
     J1 QuickSearch: creating search index ...
     J1 QuickSearch: finished, index ready.
     ....
----

Or, if you're running a website in development mode, the index gets refreshed
for all files added or modified.

.Index creation if files added, or modified
----
site:       Regenerating: n file(s) changed at ...
site:       ...
site:      J1 QuickSearch: creating search index ...
site:      J1 QuickSearch: finished, index ready.
           ...
----

=== Documents

The searchable data in an index is organized as documents that contains the
text, the words (terms), that you want to be able to search on. A document is
a data set (JSON object) with a set of fields that are processed to create the
result list for a search.

A document data set might look like this:

[source, json, role="noclip"]
----
{
  "title": "Web in a Day",
  "tagline": "meet & greet jekyll",
  "url": "/pages/public/learn/kickstarter/web_in_a_day/meet_and_greet/",
  "date": "2018-05-01 00:00:00 +0000",
  "tags": [
    "Introduction"
  ],
  "categories": [
    "Jekyll",
    "Knowledge",
    "Tutorial"
  ],
  "description": "Web in a Day is the first in a series of tutorials ..."
}
----

In this document there are several fields, like `title`, `tagline`, or
`description` that could be used for *full-text* searches. But additional
fields are available, like `tags` or `categories` that can be used for
more specific searches based on `identifiers`.

NOTE: The document *content* is collected by the (intrinsic) field `body`.
To limit the size of the index data loaded by the browser, the body
field is removed from a document. The `body` field not available as an
*explicit* field for searches, but the *content* is fully searchable.

To do a simple full-text search as well as more specific searches, the
QuickSearch core engine Lunr offers a query language, a DSL (domain specific
language). Find more about *QuickSearch|Lunr DSL* queries with section
<<Searching>>.

=== Scoring

The relevance (the `score`) of a document is calculated based on an algorithm
called *BM25*, along with other factors. You don’t need to worry too much about
the details of how this technically works. To summarize: the more a search term
occurs in a single document, the more that term will increase that document’s
score, but the more a search term occurs in the *overall* collection of
documents, the less that term will increase a document’s score. In other words,
seldom words counts, and increase the score.

Scoring information, generated by the BM25 algorithm, is added to the (local)
search index. This allows a very fast calculation of the relevance of documents
for queries.

Imagine you’re website contains documents about Jekyll. The term `Jekyll` may
occur very frequently throughout the entire website; used quite often for the
content. So finding a document that mentions the term Jekyll isn’t very
significant for a search.

However, if you’re searching for `Jekyll Generator`, only some documents of
the website have the word `Generator` in them, and that will bring the score
(relevance) for documents having both words in them at a higher level,
bring them higher up in the search results.

Matching and scoring is used by all search engines; the same to J1 QuickSearch.
You'll see for QuickSearch a similiar behavior in *sorting* search results as
you already know from commercial internet search engines like Google: the top
results are the more relevant ones.

== Searching

To access QuickSearch, a magnifier button is available in the `Quicklinks`
area in the menu bar at the top-right of every page.

.Search button (magnifier) in the quick access area
lightbox::quicksearch-icon[ 800, {data-quicksearch-icon} ]

A mouse-click on the magnifier button opens the search input and disables
all other navigation to focus on what you're itended to do: searching.

.Input bar for a QuickSearch
lightbox::quicksearch-input[ 800, {data-quicksearch-input} ]

Search queries looks like simple text. But the search `engine` under the
hood of QuickSearch transforms the given search string (text) always into a
search query. This supports a special syntax, the DSL, for defining more
complex queries for better (scored) results.

As always: start simple!

=== Simple searches

The simplest way to run a search is to pass the text (words, terms) on which
you want to search on:

[source, text]
----
jekyll
----

The above will return all documents that match the term `jekyll`. Searches for
*multiple* terms (words) are also supported. If a document matches *at least*
one of the search terms, it will show in the results. The search terms are
combined by a logical `OR`.

[source, text]
----
jekyll tutorial
----

The above example will match documents that contain either `jekyll` *OR*
`tutorial`. Documents that contain _both_ will increase the score, and those
documents be returned first.

NOTE: In difference to a Google search (terms are combined at Google by a
logical `AND`) a Quicksearch combines the terms by an `OR`.

To combine search terms in a QuickSearch query by a logical *AND*, the terms
could be prepended by a plus sign (`+`) to mark them as for the QuickSearch
query (DSL) as *required*:

[source, text]
----
+jekyll +tutorial
----

=== Wildcards

QuickSearch supports wildcards when performing searches. A wildcard is
represented as an asterisk (`*`) and can appear anywhere in a search
term. For example, the following will match all documents with words
beginning with `Jek`:

[source, text]
----
jek*
----

NOTE: Language grammar rules are not relevant for searches. To simplify an
index, all words (terms) are transformed to lower case. As result, a word
`Jekyll` is the same as `jekyll` from a search-engines prospective. Language
variations of words like `Jekyll's` or plurals like `Generators` are reduced
to their base form. For searches, don't take care of grammar rules but the
spelling. If you're unsure about the spelling of a word, use wildcards.


=== Fields

By default, Lunr will search *all fields* in a document for the given query
terms, and it is possible to restrict a term to a specific *field*. The
following example searches for the term `jekyll` in the field title:

[source, text]
----
title:jekyll
----

The search term is prefixed with the name of the field, followed by a
colon (`:`). The field _must_ be one of the fields defined when building
the index. Unrecognised fields will lead to an error.

Field-based searches can be combined with all other term modifiers and
wildcards, as well as other terms. For example, to search for words
beginning with `jek` in the title *AND* the wildcard `coll*` in a document,
the following query can be used:

[source, text]
----
+title:jek* +coll*
----

==== Available fields

Beside the document *body*, an intrinsic field to create the full-text index
out of the document *content*, some more specific fields are available for
searches.

.Available fields (all documents)
[cols="3a,3a,6a, options="header", width="100%", role="rtable mt-3"]
|===============================================================================
|Name |Value |Description\|Example\|s

|`title`
|`string`
|The headline of a document (article, post)

Example\|s: QuickSearch
[source, text]
----
title:QuickSearch
----

|`tagline`
|`string`
|The subtitle of a document (article, post)

Example\|s: full index search

|`tags`
|`string`
|Tags describe the content of a document.

Example\|s: Roundtrip, QuickSearch

|`categories`
|`string`
|Categories describe the group of documnets a document belongs to.

Example\|s: Search

|`description`
|`string`
|The description is given by the author for a document. It gives a brief
summary what the document is all about.

Example\|s: QuickSearch is based on the search engine Lunr, fully integrated
with J1 Template  ...

|===============================================================================


////
=== Boosts

In multi-term searches, a single term may be important than others. For
these cases Lunr supports term level boosts. Any document that matches a
boosted term will get a higher relevance score, and appear higher up in
the results. A boost is applied by appending a caret (`^`) and then a
positive integer to a term.

[source, javascript]
----
idx.search('foo^10 bar')
----

The above example weights the term “foo” 10 times higher than the term
“bar”. The boost value can be any positive integer, and different terms
can have different boosts:

[source, javascript]
----
idx.search('foo^10 bar^5 baz')
----

=== Fuzzy Matches

Lunr supports fuzzy matching search terms in documents, which can be
helpful if the spelling of a term is unclear, or to increase the number
of search results that are returned. The amount of fuzziness to allow
when searching can also be controlled. Fuzziness is applied by appending
a tilde (`~`) and then a positive integer to a term. The following
search matches all documents that have a word within 1 edit distance of
“foo”:

[source, javascript]
----
idx.search('foo~1')
----

An edit distance of 1 allows words to match if either adding, removing,
changing or transposing a character in the word would lead to a match.
For example “boo” requires a single edit (replacing “f” with “b”) and
would match, but “boot” would not as it also requires an additional “t”
at the end.
////

=== Term presence

By default, Lunr combines multiple terms together in a search with a
logical OR. That is, a search for `jekyll collections` will match documents
that contain `jekyll` or contain `collections` or contain both. This behaviour
is controllable at the term level, i.e. the presence of each term in
matching documents can be specified.

By default each term is optional in a matching document, though a document
must have at least one matching term. It is possible to specify that a term
must be present in matching documents, or that it must be absent in matching
documents.

To indicate that a term must be *present* in matching documents the term
could be prefixed with a plus sign (`+`) (required) and to indicate that a
term  must be *absent* (not wanted) the term should be prefixed with a minus
(`-`).

The below example searches for documents that *must* contain `jekyll`, and
must *not* contain the word `collection`:

[source, text]
----
+jekyll -collection
----

To simulate a logical *AND* search of documents that contains the word `jekyll`
*AND* the word `collection`, mark both terms as required:

[source, text]
----
+jekyll +collection
----


== Whats next

You've explored some of the possibilities J1 offers for websites. But much,
much more can J1 do for your project. This was the last place to go for the
roundtrip. More details of the most common elements of Bootstrap can be found
on the previewer for a theme. Have a look at the
link:{previewer-theme}[Theme Previewer].

To make things real for your new site, go for *Web in a day*. This tutorial
guides you through all the steps on how to build a website. Your site using
Jekyll and the template system J1. It's really a pleasant journey to learn what
modern static webs can offer today.

Start your journey from here: {url-j1-web-in-a-day--meet-and-greet}[Web in a Day].

== Leave a comment
