pages/public/learn/where_to_go.adoc, before:

---
title:                                  Where to go
tagline:                                fasten your way
date:                                   2020-11-03 00:00:00
description: >
                                        Welcome to the pages of J1 Template. If your here
                                        first time, a good decision you get on that page first.
                                        For sure, there is no better place to go.

tags:                                   [ Roundtrip, Introduction ]
categories:                             [ Info ]

comments:                               false
fam_menu_id:                            open_toc

permalink:                              /pages/public/learn/where_to_go/
regenerate:                             false

resources:                              []
resource_options:
  - attic:
      padding_top:                      400
      padding_bottom:                   50
      opacity:                          0.5
      slides:
        - url:                          /assets/images/modules/attics/tldr-1920x800.jpg
          alt:                          Photo by Alexander Redl on Unsplash
          badge:
            type:                       unsplash
            author:                     Alexander Redl
            href:                       https://unsplash.com/@alexanderredl
---

// Page Initializer
// =============================================================================
// Enable the Liquid Preprocessor
:page-liquid:

// Set (local) page attributes here
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
// :page--attr:                         <attr-value>

//  Load Liquid procedures
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% capture load_attributes %}themes/{{site.template.name}}/procedures/global/attributes_loader.proc{%endcapture%}

// Load page attributes
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% include {{load_attributes}} scope="global" %}


// Page content
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Welcome to the pages of J1 Template. If your here first time, a good decision
you get on that page first. For sure, there is no better place to go.
The crucial first step in to find your way to Jekyll is done. Congratulations.
The *Learn* section contains all you need to learn what Jekyll and J1 can do
for your website. For your new static web - if you like.

Roundtrip::
With this section you'll find a *tour* to show some of the main features of
the template system *J1*. The tour covers how image data can be managed using
J1, some background of the typography the template is using, discuss important
extensions and some more what J1 can do. The roundtrip is a *visual* tour.
No technical stuff, nothing academic. See what you will get. As an
overview of some of the main features of *J1*.  If you like, continue by
walking through the roundtrip examples
link:/pages/public/learn/roundtrip/present_images/[by starting the tour here].

Web in a Day::
To go deeper, your're invited to *Web in a Day*. This tutorial guides you
through all the steps to build a website using Jekyll and the template system
J1. The guide let you go more in-depth and make things real. You dive into
the world of Jekyll. You'll have learned a lot at the end of that day about
what Jekyll is, static webs and the template system J1 is all about. To go
deeper, your're invited, try out the journey having some hours of fun at
{url-j1-web-in-a-day--meet-and-greet}[Web in a Day, {browser-window--new}].

Commit message:

Added Quickstart to Learn. Added comments to relevat pages

pages/public/learn/where_to_go.adoc, after:

---
title:                                  Where to go
tagline:                                fasten your way
date:                                   2020-11-03 00:00:00
description: >
                                        Welcome to the pages of J1 Template. If your here
                                        first time, a good decision you get on that page first.
                                        For sure, there is no better place to go.

tags:                                   [ Roundtrip, Introduction ]
categories:                             [ Info ]

comments:                               true
fam_menu_id:                            open_toc

permalink:                              /pages/public/learn/where_to_go/
regenerate:                             false

resources:                              []
resource_options:
  - attic:
      padding_top:                      400
      padding_bottom:                   50
      opacity:                          0.5
      slides:
        - url:                          /assets/images/modules/attics/tldr-1920x800.jpg
          alt:                          Photo by Alexander Redl on Unsplash
          badge:
            type:                       unsplash
            author:                     Alexander Redl
            href:                       https://unsplash.com/@alexanderredl
---

// Page Initializer
// =============================================================================
// Enable the Liquid Preprocessor
:page-liquid:

// Set (local) page attributes here
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
// :page--attr:                         <attr-value>

//  Load Liquid procedures
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% capture load_attributes %}themes/{{site.template.name}}/procedures/global/attributes_loader.proc{%endcapture%}

// Load page attributes
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
{% include {{load_attributes}} scope="global" %}


// Page content
// ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Welcome to the pages of J1 Template. If your here first time, a good decision
you get on that page first. For sure, there is no better place to go.
The crucial first step in to find your way to Jekyll is done. Congratulations.
The *Learn* section contains all you need to learn what Jekyll and J1 can do
for your website. For your new static web - if you like.

Quickstart::
For experienced people, familiar using Jekyll, the *Quickstart* section may
helpful to start by creating a *Starter Web* - the buildin website for *J1*.
This article gives an overview what software is needed and how to run the
base (web development) commands for:

* creating a J1 project
* setting up your run-time
* (re-)build a web
* run a web

Setting up a J1 project and creating a first website will take about 15
minutes. But, you should know what your are doing!

Roundtrip::
With this section you'll find a *tour* to show some of the main features of
the template system *J1*. The tour covers how image data can be managed using
J1, some background of the typography the template is using, discuss important
extensions and some more what J1 can do. The roundtrip is a *visual* tour.
No technical stuff, nothing academic. See what you will get. As an
overview of some of the main features of *J1*.  If you like, continue by
walking through the roundtrip examples
link:/pages/public/learn/roundtrip/present_images/[by starting the tour here].

Web in a Day::
To go deeper, your're invited to *Web in a Day*. This tutorial guides you
through all the steps to build a website using Jekyll and the template system
J1. The guide let you go more in-depth and make things real. You dive into
the world of Jekyll. You'll have learned a lot at the end of that day about
what Jekyll is, static webs and the template system J1 is all about. To go
deeper, your're invited, try out the journey having some hours of fun at
{url-j1-web-in-a-day--meet-and-greet}[Web in a Day, {browser-window--new}].

The sections of *Learn* should help all people interested in modern Jekyll
websites to get informed fast what Jekyll and J1 Template is all about. Now,
it's on you where you start.

Anyway, have a good start using *Jekyll and J1*!

== Leave a comment
